Height will come back and there's video we're looking at to the select statement in sequel.
The select statement let's retrieve a data from our database and have a look at it and potentially export
it and use it in our applications.
It is probably the most popular sequel say let's first click on our learning database that should have
the data provided in the last lecture and go to execute sequel queries.
This brings up the window which allows us to execute the query gives us some data output and also allows
us to write things that in the scratchpad.
If we are so inclined the sequel command is fairly simple.
It has two parts.
The first one is a select and then goes what columns you want to select and then from and then what
table you want to select from.
Notice that the only tables that we can select from those tables inside the database that we're using
the data is that we're using is up there.
Is the learning database in my case.
There's a couple other databases that you may have such as the default database where in my case I have
another database as well but the only databases you can access with this query is those that are in
the database that you're currently connected to.
Which makes sense we might put here.
For example customers which is one of the databases that we've imported from The Last Lecture.
And then in the select part what we put in is the columns that we want to retrieve the columns we want
data for or optionally instead of specifying the columns that we want data for we can just put an asterisk
.
Now what do you think this asterisk is going to do.
Take a wild guess.
Well I think you've probably guessed that the answer this is going to select all of the columns in that
database.
So let's press play and see what happens and what you see here is all the data that is in that table
the customer table.
And so we've got a first underscore name call them an ID column and the last underscore name call the
first name has a bunch of names in there.
The last name has a bunch of names in there as well.
And the ID just has numbers from 1 to 5 something that we also get as well as the name of the column
is the data type.
What sort of data is stored in this column.
We've only got two differing data types in this table.
First name and last name are both of type character varying and the ID is a type in the a character
data type just means letters numbers symbols anything you could store as a string essentially.
Varying means that it can have up to 100 characters in this case of length.
If you do not have varying That means that all of the strings will have 100 characters long.
Mean if they don't then empty spaces will be added as well.
Finally this one has up to 255 characters in length.
So the last name is slightly longer or can be slightly longer than the first names the integer is just
a number that can be stored.
Normally when you use an ID an identification column you want these to be integers because sequel has
the ability to automatically increment these numbers for you.
So the next time we add a row the row would have the ID 6 which is nice because that means we don't
have to worry about which row number where at.
So let's say we want to select just the first name when we can also do that we can specify the table
name and then period.
And then the column name.
So in this case customers Dalt first underscore name.
If we press play.
I'm sure you can expect these two columns to disappear and just the first name column to appear because
we've also removed the asterisk and that is indeed what happens when we press play we get the first
name call them with the first names of our users or our customers.
However we're not limited to only selecting one column or all columns.
We can also select two columns or indeed any number of columns that we want and we can do that by using
a comma so we can select customers dot first name comma customers dot the last name which would be another
column and that will give me two columns.
So what do you think is going to come out in the data output.
I'm sure your guest will be first name.
And then lastly trespassed and you are right we've got the first name in there and the last name out
there as well.
Something I don't like but sometimes it's useful but sometimes when you want to export data and send
it to one specific customer for example you don't want to call them names to be first underscore a name
and so on.
Sometimes you want them to be improper English with proper capitalization and you can do that.
You can use an alias command in sequel.
And what the alias commando's is it renames one of your columns so as is the alias command.
And what this will do is will see select customers dot first name call them giving it the name provided
now and the name has to go inside quotation marks.
So with this Lou it will just rename the column temporarily.
When we select it it will not change the table column name.
It will just temporarily call it first name.
Notice.
This has to go inside quotation marks because this thing here is not a table and it's not a sequel command
.
So it has to go inside quotation marks.
So let's press play and then notice how this column is now called First Name the data type is still
there because that just gets shown to us so we can quickly see what it is.
But it wouldn't get shown if you were to export data.
Finally we can also do that with a last name if we wanted.
And that will rename the last name column as well.
Something to keep in mind now that we are starting to look at secret code.
Is that secret code does not have to be in caps.
It is nice because it gives you a quick it quickly allows you to see which things are secret code but
you can just as well put it in lowercase and it works just as well so you don't have to worry about
making uppercase so sequel does not care about the casing of your commands.
It does care about the casing of your columns though.
So make sure those are correct and of your tables.
So we've looked at the select command.
We've looked at selecting from the specific table and we've looked at the alias command which is X which
lets us rename tables as we see soon.
The ask.com and also lets us rename tables and we're going to be looking at that soon.
So as trining columns or trining tables and select from as well.
Okay.
So in the next few